[rum] e-commerce guides (#16767)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/real_user_monitoring/guide/enable-rum-shopify-store.md

---
title: Enable RUM on your Shopify store
kind: guide
further_reading:
- link: '/real_user_monitoring/guide/rum-for-product-analytics/'
  tag: 'Documentation'
  text: 'Use RUM & Session Replay for Product Analytics'
- link: '/real_user_monitoring/guide/alerting-with-conversion-rates/'
  tag: 'Documentation'
  text: 'Alerting With Conversion Rates'
---

## Overview

> With the ever growing popularity of low-code e-commerce platforms such as Shopify, WooCommerce, or Squarespace, understanding how customers interact with your website — including which pages they visit, how much time they spend on your website, and which products are the most popular — is crucial to the success of your store. This data can be used to optimize your store and improve the overall customer experience.

Reviewer: I would take out the examples and change it to "With the ever growing popularity of low-code e-commerce platforms, understanding how...

> Thanks to Real User Monitoring you can identify issues such as broken links, slow load times, errors, and detect technical issues before they even arise. Real User Monitoring can be integrated with the aforementioned e-commerce platforms, and we will see in this guide how this can be achieved. Starting today, understand the performance of your web pages and gather valuable insights about your customers.

Reviewer: instead of "Thanks" I would recommend "With Real User Monitoring..."

> Thanks to Real User Monitoring you can identify issues such as broken links, slow load times, errors, and detect technical issues before they even arise. Real User Monitoring can be integrated with the aforementioned e-commerce platforms, and we will see in this guide how this can be achieved. Starting today, understand the performance of your web pages and gather valuable insights about your customers.

Reviewer: I would delete this whole thing and just add a line in the paragraph before that says "This guide will walk through how you can set up Real User Monitoring on your websites"

---
title: Enable RUM on Your Shopify Store
kind: guide
further_reading:
- link: '/real_user_monitoring/guide/rum-for-product-analytics/'
  tag: 'Documentation'
  text: 'Use RUM & Session Replay for Product Analytics'
- link: '/real_user_monitoring/guide/alerting-with-conversion-rates/'
  tag: 'Documentation'
  text: 'Alerting With Conversion Rates'
---

## Overview

> Understanding how customers interact with your web pages is crucial to the success of your online store. This guide will walk through how you can set up Real User Monitoring on your Shopify-powered store.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Understanding how customers interact with your web pages is crucial to the success of your online store.

This guide walks through how you can set up Real User Monitoring on your Shopify-powered store.
```

## Setup

> 1. Log in your Shopify administration panel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Log into your Shopify administration panel.
```

> 2. Under **Sales channels**, click on **Online Store**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Under **Sales channels**, click **Online Store**.
```

>    {{< img src="real_user_monitoring/guide/enable-rum-shopify-store/enable-rum-shopify-1.png" alt="Enable RUM on your Shopify store" style="width:40%;">}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   {{< img src="real_user_monitoring/guide/enable-rum-shopify-store/enable-rum-shopify-1.png" alt="Enable RUM on your Shopify store" style="width:30%;">}}
```

> 3. This will open up a new menu, click on **Themes**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. This opens up a new menu, click on **Themes**.
```

>    {{< img src="real_user_monitoring/guide/enable-rum-shopify-store/enable-rum-shopify-2.png" alt="Enable RUM on your Shopify store" style="width:40%;">}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   {{< img src="real_user_monitoring/guide/enable-rum-shopify-store/enable-rum-shopify-2.png" alt="Enable RUM on your Shopify store" style="width:30%;">}}
```

> 4. Click on the **Edit code** button for your current theme.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Click the **Edit code** button for your current theme.
```

   {{< img src="real_user_monitoring/guide/enable-rum-shopify-store/enable-rum-shopify-3.png" alt="Enable RUM on your Shopify store" >}}

> 5. Under the **Layout** directory, you will find the main file of your theme **theme.liquid**. Click on the file in order to edit it. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Under the **Layout** directory, find the main file of your theme **theme.liquid**. Click the file to edit it. 
```

>    {{< img src="real_user_monitoring/guide/enable-rum-shopify-store/enable-rum-shopify-4.png" alt="Enable RUM on your Shopify store" style="width:40%;">}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   {{< img src="real_user_monitoring/guide/enable-rum-shopify-store/enable-rum-shopify-4.png" alt="Enable RUM on your Shopify store" style="width:30%;">}}
```

> 6. Initialise the Browser RUM SDK by adding the SDK code snippet inside the `<head>` tag. For more information about which installation method to choose, you can refer to the [RUM Browser Monitoring documentation][1].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Initialize the Browser RUM SDK by adding the SDK code snippet inside the `<head>` tag. For more information about which installation method to choose, see the [RUM Browser Monitoring documentation][1].
```

      sessionSampleRate: 100,
      sessionReplaySampleRate: 100, // if not included, the default is 100
      trackResources: true,
      trackLongTasks: true,
      trackUserInteractions: true,
    });
  window.DD_RUM &&
    window.DD_RUM.startSessionReplayRecording();
</script>
```
{{</ site-region>}}
{{< site-region region="gov" >}}
```html
<script src="https://www.datadoghq-browser-agent.com/datadog-rum-v4.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
<script>
  window.DD_RUM &&
    window.DD_RUM.init({
      clientToken: '<CLIENT_TOKEN>',
      applicationId: '<APPLICATION_ID>',
      site: 'ddog-gov.com',
      //  service: 'my-web-application',
      //  env: 'production',
      //  version: '1.0.0',
      sessionSampleRate: 100,
      sessionReplaySampleRate: 100, // if not included, the default is 100
      trackResources: true,
      trackLongTasks: true,
      trackUserInteractions: true,
    });
  window.DD_RUM &&
    window.DD_RUM.startSessionReplayRecording();
</script>
```
{{</ site-region>}}
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}
  
   {{< img src="real_user_monitoring/guide/enable-rum-shopify-store/enable-rum-shopify-5.png" alt="Enable RUM on your Shopify store" >}}

> 7. Save the changes by clicking on the **Save** button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Click the **Save** button to save your changes.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

The updated looks like the following in the Shopify UI:

```

>    {{< img src="real_user_monitoring/guide/enable-rum-shopify-store/enable-rum-shopify-6.png" alt="Enable RUM on your Shopify store" style="width:75%;">}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   {{< img src="real_user_monitoring/guide/enable-rum-shopify-store/enable-rum-shopify-6.png" alt="Enable RUM on your Shopify store" style="width:50%;">}}
```

> If needed, more information regarding theme code's editing can be found in [Shopify's documentation][2].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See more information regarding theme code's editing in [Shopify's documentation][2].
```

## Start exploring

> You can now start using Real User Monitoring with your Shopify store. Get valuable insights about your customers behavior, make data-driven decisions to improve your store, and increase conversion by watching browser recordings enriched sessions with [Session Replay][3], building [funnel analysis][4] to better understand customer journey, or [generating metrics][5] from those newly captured sessions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you've initialized the Browser RUM SDK, you can start using Real User Monitoring with your Shopify store.

For example, you can:

- Get valuable insights about your customers' behavior by
making data-driven decisions to improve your store
- Increase conversion by watching browser recordings enriched sessions with [Session Replay][3]
- Use [funnel analysis][4] to better understand the customer journey, or 
- [Generate metrics][5] from those newly captured sessions
```
